Right.
Welcome to the new section
of the Udemy's Python course.
So, next up, what we are
taking up next, we want
to study about the loops.
This is an interesting concept
in the world of Python,
but requires a little bit
more additional practice.
So make sure you are practicing
enough on the Python loop section.
The loop simply means I want
to do a task again and again.
So far in the course, we have seen
that based on certain condition,
we go either left or right.
And by the left and right, I mean
to say whether we go onto a route
of yes or we go for a route of no.
The condition was false,
so I'm going this side.
If the condition is false,
I'm going that side.
This is what we have done so far.
Now we want to do certain
tasks again and again.
And you might be asking, why
would you want to do that?
Why?
A task needs to be performed
10 times or 20 times.
What's the point of it?
Now, sometimes programming, and
especially in the world of
programming, it requires you to
perform a task again, again,
sometimes 10 times, sometimes five
times, and sometimes you don't even
know how many times.
I'll give you an example.
Let's just say you made a web
request to a database, a,
backend side, and that backend gave
you five books to display.
So you have wrote a code, you
have written a code that displays
the book one time, and based
on the request, you get five
data to display the books.
You repeat the logic again, you
display one book, then second book,
then third book, and all of this.
Now, in the world of programming,
we don't say we start with one.
In the world of programming,
everything, almost
everything starts with zero.
So first item is always 0th
index, then first index.
So we display all
of the five items like that.
This is a common thing that you'll
be doing, and we will be learning
about them in the course itself.
So take a moment and try to
understand what we are doing here.
Loops are a very interesting concept,
but they require a little bit
more effort than the regular ones.
And don't worry, we will have
stories for this one as well.
So let's go with the sum
of the stories.
So we will start the loop section.
And loops are pretty fun, actually.
They are pretty fun.
And by the end of this chapter,
you'll be able to use for loop.
And while loop, these are the most
prominent loop that are used.
Just like we have the condition if
else if, or else,
these are just the keywords.
So we will be fully comfortable with
working with for and the while loop.
Apart from this, we will also
learn how we can loop through
some of the sequences.
Like there is a sequence range,
they gives you certain
range like this range.
If you give a start limit
and end limit, it gives you
all the data in between.
For example, you can put a range of
1 to 11 and it will give you all
the numbers starting from 1 to 10.
Remember in the Python,
range is never inclusive.
In the whole of Python, wherever
you see whether numbers, strings,
range or anything,
the range is never inclusive.
So, so keep that in mind
and we will use it later on.
So we'll see that how we can
produce some of the sequences.
The sequences producers can
be range, enumerate, zip,
and they all have their equal.
I will show you real world
stories so that we can actually
learn to utilize them.
We will see some of the control
behaviors on the loop.
Like how we can control
the loop in between.
Let's just say the loop was asked
to run between 1 and 10.
But there are certain conditions,
if those conditions are met,
they might met, they might not met.
We want to break out
of the loop or we want to just
skip one part of the loop.
There are so many things that
we can do so we are going
to just work with that.
Then we are going to identify when
to use for VS while loop.
Again they are kind of same, but of
course they are two different ones.
So we will see that how it can work
and we will of course go through
with the real world logic.
We will have the challenges,
we will fix those challenges
and work just like that.
So with this, I really don't want
to waste too much of your time.
We will directly jump into
very first, exercise here, very
first example, but that
we'll do in the next video.
So let's catch up
in the next video quickly.